Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state-specific versions.SUMMARY OF BENEFITSPLAN INFORMATIONCigna Dental 1000 PlanWith Cigna there is more to smile about.You get flexible benefits and premium levels to meet your needs and budget, plus:› Access to the Cigna DPPO Advantage Network with 89,000+ unique dental providers at more than 300,000locations across the U.S.1› No referral needed to see a specialist› 15% discount on monthly premiums for any additional eligible dependents2 on the plan› Available for all ages, including those 65 and older› No application or processing fees› Waiting periods may be waived for select procedures if you have had prior similar dental coverage3› No need to submit claims when you use a Cigna DPPO Advantage Network provider› 24/7/365 customer service› Online access with myCigna.com®. You can view bills and claims online, anytime – and make a payment, too› Mobile access on the go. Find a dentist, check coverage and show your ID card with the myCigna® App4You have freedom.You are free to choose a provider from our large national network or one from outside the network. Keep in mind,you’ll save the most if you visit a Cigna DPPO Advantage Network provider. Find providers in our network atCigna.com/ifp-providers.In the chart below, you can see how your savings may be greater when visiting a Cigna DPPO Advantage Networkprovider with a Cigna Dental 1000 Plan compared with your other options.                                            0                      1                             2                3                         4
                                                                        SAMPLE OUT-OF-POCKET COSTS                                           
                                    PROCEDURE         CLASS CATEGORY CIGNA DPPO ADVANTAGE NETWORK5 OUT-OF- NETWORK5 WITHOUT DENTAL INSURANCE6
             Cleaning (Adult Prophy) – D1110    Class I (preventive)                            $0              $66                      $109
                Filling (2 Surfaces) – D2392        Class II (basic)                           $28             $175                      $255
Crown (Porcelain & High Noble Metal) – D2750       Class III (major)                          $357           $1,032                    $1,283
               Orthodontics (Braces) – D8080  Class IV (orthodontia)                   Not covered      Not covered                    $6,909
If you have a different plan, services may not be covered and discounts may vary. Chart is estimated; benefits may vary byprovider and location. Out-of-network expenses may be higher in North Carolina and lower in Alaska and Massachusetts.1. Cigna internal data as of May 2022. Subject to change.2. For each additional eligible dependent, as defined by the policy, added to a primary policy, a 15% discount is applied to the standard rate. Discount is applied in the quote tool.3. View Dental Benefit details on page 3 for applicable waiting periods. Waiting Periods for Class II and III will be waived at the individual member level if the application indicates that there was12 months or more of prior dental coverage which included coverage for Class III, Major Restorative services and not more than 63 days has lapsed between the prior coverage and this plan.Any prior dental insurance plan that did not include Class III services will not count toward waiting period waiver. Waiting periods are waived for Class II and Class III in Maine if under the ageof 19.4. App/online store terms and mobile phone carrier/data charges apply.5. Estimate based on the national average of a standard Cigna Dental 1000 plan; subject to deductible and coinsurance (as applicable), results in specific states may vary. If you visit anout-of-network provider, you are responsible for the difference in the amount that Cigna reimburses (i.e., Contracted fee) for such services and the amount charged by the dentist.6. Estimates based on 2021 Cigna Dental internal claims data, projected to 2022.888306 p 09/22Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.
Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.
Cigna Dental Plans
Dental Terms
Below you will find easy-to-understand definitions for commonly used words.
Actual Billed Charges: The fee that a provider charges a patient who does not have dental insurance. If a patient
has dental insurance and visits a Cigna DPPO Advantage Network provider, the provider charges the negotiated
rate/contracted fee.
Balance Billing: When an out-of-network provider bills you for the difference between the charges for a service, and
what Cigna will pay for that service after coinsurance and Contracted Fee (CF), or Maximum Reimbursable Charge
(MRC) in AK and MA, have been applied. For example, an out-of-network provider may charge $100 to fill a cavity.
If CF is $50 for that service and the coinsurance is 50%, Cigna will pay $25 and you will pay $25. Because you are
visiting an out-of-network provider, the provider may bill you the remaining $50; thus, your total out-of-pocket cost
will be $75. These charges are separate from any applicable deductible and coinsurance.
Calendar Year Deductible: The dollar amount you must pay each year for eligible dental expenses before the
insurance begins paying for basic and major restorative care services, if covered by your plan.
Calendar Year Maximum: The most your plan will pay during a calendar year (12-month period beginning each
January 1). You’ll need to pay 100% out of pocket for any services after you reach your calendar year maximum. This
typically applies to Class I, II, and III.
Cigna DPPO Advantage Network: Dentists who have contracted with Cigna and agreed to accept a predetermined
contracted fee for the services provided to Cigna customers. Visiting a provider in this network means you’ll save the
most money, because the fee is discounted.
Coinsurance: Your share of the cost of a covered dental service (a percentage amount). You pay coinsurance plus
any deductible amount not met yet for that calendar year. For example, if you go to the dentist and your visit costs
$200, the dentist sends a claim to Cigna. If you have already met your annual deductible amount, Cigna may pay
80% ($160) and you will pay a coinsurance of 20% ($40).
Contracted Fee (CF): The most Cigna will pay a dentist for a covered service or procedure for out-of-network dental
care that is based on a basic Cigna DPPO Advantage fee schedule within a specified area. See example provided
under Balance Billing.
Maximum Reimbursable Charge (MRC) – applies in AK and MA only: Also referred to as U&C, R&C and UCR. The
most Cigna will pay a dentist for a covered service or procedure for out-of-network dental care. Normally applies as
a percentile, based on the published prevailing HealthCare charges designated by zip code data. See example
provided under Balance Billing.
Non-participating Providers (Out-of-network): Providers who have not contracted with Cigna to offer you savings.
They charge their own fees (Actual Billed Charges). Covered expenses for Non-participating Providers are based on
the Contracted Fee, which may be less than Actual Billed Charges. Non-participating Providers can bill you for
amounts exceeding covered expenses.
Waiting Period: The amount of time that you must be enrolled in the plan before certain benefits are payable.
Waiting periods may vary by state. You may be eligible to waive the waiting period for Classes II & III if you have a
continuous 12 months of prior coverage from a valid dental insurance plan which included Class III, Major Restorative
services, and not more than 63 days has lapsed between the prior coverage and this plan. Any prior dental insurance
plan that did not include Class III services will not count toward waiting period waiver. Waiting periods are waived for
Class II and Class III in Maine if under the age of 19.
2

Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.Cigna Dental Plans                                                              0                                                                                                                                                                                  1
                                         Cigna Dental 1000 Plan                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                   CIGNA DPPO ADVANTAGE NETWORK OUT-OF-NETWORK Your out-of-pocket expenses will be higher; these providers have not agreed to offer Cigna customers our contracted or discounted fees. Example provided on page 1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
       Based on provider’s contracted fees for covered services                                                                                                                  Based on provider’s actual billed charges and the contracted fee1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                         You pay $0 (No charge)                                                                    You pay the difference between the provider’s actual billed charges and 100%/in NC 95%, of the contracted fees1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
You pay 20% of the provider’s contracted fee (after deductible)                                                   You pay the difference between the provider’s actual billed charges and 80%/in NC 75%, of the contracted fee1 (after deductible)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
You pay 50% of the provider’s contracted fee (after deductible)                                                   You pay the difference between the provider’s actual billed charges and 50%/in NC 45%, of the contracted fee1 (after deductible)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.Cigna Dental PlansCigna Dental 1000 PlanOUT-OF-NETWORKCIGNA DPPO ADVANTAGE Your out-of-pocket expenses will be higher; these providersDENTAL BENEFITNETWORK have not agreed to offer Cigna customers our contracted ordiscounted fees. Example provided on page 1.Individual Calendar Year Deductible $50 per personFamily Calendar Year Deductible $150 per familyCalendar Year Maximum$1,000 per person(For Class I, II, and III services)Based on provider’s contracted fees for Based on provider’s actual billed chargesPayment Levelscovered services and the contracted fee1CLASS I: PREVENTIVE/DIAGNOSTIC SERVICESPreventive/Diagnostic Services Waiting Period NonePreventive/Diagnostic ServicesYou pay the difference between the provider’sOral Exams, Routine Cleanings, Routine X-Rays, You pay $0actual billed charges and 100%/in NC 95%,Sealants, Fluoride Treatment, Space Maintainers (No charge)of the contracted fees1(non-orthodontic)CLASS II: BASIC RESTORATIVE SERVICESBasic Restorative Services Waiting Period 6-month waiting period2Basic Restorative Services You pay the difference between the provider’sYou pay 20% of the provider’s contracted feeNonroutine X-Rays, Fillings, Routine Tooth actual billed charges and 80%/in NC 75%,(after deductible)Extraction, Emergency Treatment of the contracted fee1 (after deductible)CLASS III: MAJOR RESTORATIVE SERVICESMajor Restorative Services Waiting Period 12-month waiting period3Major Restorative ServicesYou pay the difference between the provider’sPeriodontal (Deep Cleaning), Periodontal You pay 50% of the provider’s contracted feeactual billed charges and 50%/in NC 45%,Maintenance, Crowns, Root Canal Therapy, Wisdom (after deductible)of the contracted fee1 (after deductible)Tooth Extraction, Dentures/Partials, BridgesCLASS IV: ORTHODONTIAOrthodontia Not coveredThis summary contains highlights only. For additional plan information, including out-of-network benefits, please refer to the Policy for details.1. If you choose to visit a dentist out-of-network, you will pay the out-of-network benefit and the difference between the amount that Cigna reimburses for such services (CF), or MRC in AKand MA and the amount charged by the dentist, except for emergency services as defined in the policy. This is known as balance billing. See the definitions for Contracted Fee (CF), MaximumReimbursable Charge (MRC; applies in AK and MA only) and Balance Billing on the previous page. Refer to the policy for more details.2. Waiting periods may vary by state. Refer to the policy for details. You may be eligible to waive the waiting period for Classes II & III if you had 12 continuous months of prior coverage from avalid dental insurance plan which included coverage for Class III, Major Restorative services. Any prior dental insurance plan that did not include Class III services will not count towardwaiting period waiver. The previous plan’s termination date must be within 63 days of the start date of this Cigna plan. Waiting periods are waived for Class II and Class III in Maine if underthe age of 19.3Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.Cigna Dental Plans                           0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Cigna Dental 1000 Plan
                   PROCEDURE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 FREQUENCY/LIMITATION
                 Oral Exams                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           1 per person per consecutive 6-month period
                                                                                                                                          1 routine prophylaxis or periodontal maintenance procedure per person per consecutive 6-month period (routine prophylaxis falls under Class I; periodontal maintenance procedure falls under Class III)
             Routine X-Rays                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Bitewings: 1 set in any consecutive 12-month period. Limited to a maximum of 4 films per set
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1 treatment per tooth per lifetime. Payable on unrestored permanent bicuspid or molar teeth for participants less than age 14
         Fluoride Treatment                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1 per consecutive 12-month period for participants less than age 14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Limited to non-orthodontic treatment for prematurely removed or missing teeth for participants less than age 14
          Nonroutine X-Rays                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Full mouth or Panorex: 1 per consecutive 60-month period
                                                                                                                                                                              1 per tooth per consecutive 12-month period (applies to replacement of identical surface fillings only). No white/tooth colored fillings on bicuspid or molar teeth
Periodontal (Deep Cleaning)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1 per quadrant per consecutive 36-month period
                                                Payable only if a consecutive 6-month period has passed since the completion of active periodontal surgery. 1 periodontal maintenance or routine prophylaxis procedure per person per consecutive 6-month period (periodontal maintenance procedure is Class III; routine prophylaxis is Class I)
                             1 per tooth per consecutive 84-month period. Benefits are based on the amount payable for non-precious metals. No porcelain or white/tooth-colored material on molar crown or bridges. Replacement must be indicated by major decay. For participants less than age 16, benefits limited to resin or stainless steel
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Re-treatment of a previous root canal is covered if 24 consecutive months have passed since the original root canal
      Dentures and Partials                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1 per arch per consecutive 84-month period
                                                                                                                                                       1 per consecutive 84-month period. Benefits will be considered for the initial replacement of a necessary functioning natural tooth extracted while the person was covered under this plan
                                                                     There is no coverage for replacement of teeth that are missing prior to coverage. In FL, LA, OH, VA, and VT, payment limitation no longer applies after 12 months of continuous coverage. In NM, payment limitation no longer applies after 6 months of continuous coverage.
Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.Cigna Dental PlansCigna Dental 1000 PlanPROCEDURE FREQUENCY/LIMITATIONOral Exams 1 per person per consecutive 6-month period1 routine prophylaxis or periodontal maintenance procedure per person per consecutive 6-month periodRoutine Cleanings(routine prophylaxis falls under Class I; periodontal maintenance procedure falls under Class III)Routine X-Rays Bitewings: 1 set in any consecutive 12-month period. Limited to a maximum of 4 films per set1 treatment per tooth per lifetime. Payable on unrestored permanent bicuspid or molar teeth for participantsSealantsless than age 14Fluoride Treatment 1 per consecutive 12-month period for participants less than age 14Limited to non-orthodontic treatment for prematurely removed or missing teeth for participants less thanSpace Maintainers (non-orthodontic)age 14Nonroutine X-Rays Full mouth or Panorex: 1 per consecutive 60-month period1 per tooth per consecutive 12-month period (applies to replacement of identical surface fillings only).FillingsNo white/tooth colored fillings on bicuspid or molar teethPeriodontal (Deep Cleaning) 1 per quadrant per consecutive 36-month periodPayable only if a consecutive 6-month period has passed since the completion of active periodontal surgery.Periodontal Maintenance 1 periodontal maintenance or routine prophylaxis procedure per person per consecutive 6-month period(periodontal maintenance procedure is Class III; routine prophylaxis is Class I)1 per tooth per consecutive 84-month period. Benefits are based on the amount payable for non-preciousCrowns metals. No porcelain or white/tooth-colored material on molar crown or bridges. Replacement must beindicated by major decay. For participants less than age 16, benefits limited to resin or stainless steelRe-treatment of a previous root canal is covered if 24 consecutive months have passed since the originalRoot Canal Therapyroot canalDentures and Partials 1 per arch per consecutive 84-month period1 per consecutive 84-month period. Benefits will be considered for the initial replacement of a necessaryBridgesfunctioning natural tooth extracted while the person was covered under this planThere is no coverage for replacement of teeth that are missing prior to coverage. In FL, LA, OH, VA, and VT,Missing Teeth Limitation payment limitation no longer applies after 12 months of continuous coverage. In NM, payment limitation nolonger applies after 6 months of continuous coverage.This summary contains highlights only. Please refer to the Covered Expenses section of the Policy for details.4Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.
Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.
Cigna Dental Plans
PLAN EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
What is not covered by this plan › replacement is needed due to an additional
The initial placement of a full denture or partial
Excluded services necessary extraction of a functioning natural
denture unless it includes the replacement of a
tooth while the person is covered under this
Covered expenses do not include expenses functioning natural tooth extracted while the
plan. Benefits will be considered only for
incurred for: person is covered under this plan (the removal of
the pontic replacing the additionally
› only a permanent third molar will not qualify a full
Procedures which are not included in the policy. extracted tooth).
or partial denture for benefit under this provision).
› ›
Procedures which are not necessary and which do › The removal of only a permanent third molar
The initial placement of a fixed bridge, unless it
not have uniform professional endorsement. will not qualify an initial or replacement partial
includes the replacement of a functioning natural
› denture, full denture or fixed bridge for benefits.
Procedures for which a charge would not have tooth extracted while the person is covered under
been made in the absence of coverage or for this plan. If a bridge replaces teeth that were › The replacement of crowns, cast restoration, inlay,
which the covered person is not legally required missing prior to the date the person’s coverage onlay or other laboratory prepared restorations
to pay. became effective and also teeth that are extracted within 84 consecutive months of the date
› after the person’s effective date, benefits are of insertion.
Replacement of teeth that are missing prior
payable only for the pontics replacing those teeth
› to coverage. In, FL, LA, OH, VA, and VT, payment The replacement of a bridge, crown, cast
which are extracted while the person was insured
limitation no longer applies after 12 months restoration, inlay, onlay or other laboratory
under this plan. The removal of only a permanent
of continuous coverage. In NM, payment prepared restoration regardless of age unless
third molar will not qualify a fixed bridge for
limitation no longer applies after 6 months necessitated by major decay or fracture of the
benefit under this provision.
of continuous coverage. underlying natural tooth.
› › The surgical placement of an implant body or ›
Any procedure, service, supply or appliance, the Any replacement of a bridge, crown or denture
framework of any type; surgical procedures in
sole or primary purpose of which relates to the which is or can be made useable according to
anticipation of implant placement; any device,
change or maintenance of vertical dimension. common dental standards.
index or surgical template guide used for implant
› ›
Procedures, appliances or restorations whose main surgery; treatment or repair of an existing implant; Replacement of a partial denture or full denture
purpose is to diagnose or treat dysfunction of the prefabricated or custom implant abutments; which can be made serviceable or is replaceable.
temporomandibular joint (Services are covered in removal of an existing implant. ›
Replacement of lost or stolen appliances.
AR, MN, NM, NV, and VT). ›
Crowns, inlays, cast restorations, or other ›
› Replacement of teeth beyond the normal
The alteration or restoration of occlusion. laboratory prepared restorations on teeth unless
complement of 32.
› the tooth cannot be restored with an amalgam
The restoration of teeth which have been ›
or composite resin filling due to major decay Prescription drugs.
damaged by erosion, attrition or abrasion.
or fracture. ›
› Any procedure, service, supply or appliance used
Bite registration or bite analysis. ›
Core build-ups. primarily for the purpose of splinting.
› Cosmetic dentistry or cosmetic dental surgery › ›
Replacement of a partial denture, full denture, or Athletic mouth guards.
(dentistry or dental surgery performed solely to
fixed bridge or the addition of teeth to a partial ›
improve appearance). However, for dependent Myofunctional therapy.
denture unless:
children, benefits will include coverage of an ›
Precision or semi-precision attachments.
injury or sickness including the necessary care – Replacement occurs at least 84 consecutive
› and treatment of medically diagnosed congenital months after the initial date of insertion of the Denture duplication.
defects and birth abnormalities, including cleft current full or partial denture; or ›
Separate charges for acid etch.
lip and cleft palate. Benefits are the same for
– The partial denture is less than 84 consecutive ›
congenital defects or anomalies, including Labial veneers (laminate).
months old, and the replacement is needed
individuals born with cleft lip or cleft palate, as ›
due to a necessary extraction of an additional Porcelain or acrylic veneers of crowns or pontics
are provided for other dental conditions that are
functioning natural tooth while the person is on, or replacing the upper and lower first, second
covered by the plan.
covered under this plan (alternate benefits of and third molars.
› Any procedure, service or supply provided adding a tooth to an existing appliance may ›
Precious or semi-precious metals for crowns,
primarily for cosmetic purposes. Facings, repairs be applied); or
bridges, pontics and abutments; crowns and
to facings or replacement of facings on crowns
– Replacement occurs at least 84 consecutive bridges other than stainless steel or resin for
or bridge units on molar teeth shall always be
months after the initial date of insertion of participants under 16 years old.
considered cosmetic.
an existing fixed bridge (if the prior bridge
is less than 84 consecutive months old, and
5

Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.
Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.
Cigna Dental Plans
PLAN EXCLUSIONS AND LIMITATIONS
› General Limitations ›
Treatment of jaw fractures and Services or supplies received as a result of dental
orthognathic surgery. No payment will be made for expenses incurred for disease, defect or injury due to an act of war,
› you or any one of your dependents: declared or undeclared.
Orthodontic treatment. Exclusion does not apply
› ›
if the plan otherwise covers services for For services not specifically listed as covered To the extent that payment is unlawful where the
orthodontic treatment. services in the policy. person resides when the expenses are incurred.
› › ›
Charges for sterilization of equipment, disposal of For services or supplies that are not For charges which the person is not legally
medical waste or other requirements mandated dentally necessary. required to pay.
by OSHA or other regulatory agencies and › ›
For services received before the start date For charges which would not have been made if
infection control.
of coverage. the person had no insurance.
› Charges for travel time; transportation costs. › ›
For services received after coverage under this To the extent that billed charges exceed the rate of
› Temporary, transitional or interim dental services. policy ends. reimbursement as described in the schedule.
› › ›
Any procedure, service or supply not reasonably For services for which you have no legal For charges for unnecessary care, treatment
expected to correct the patient’s dental condition obligation to pay or for which no charge or surgery.
for a period of at least three years, as determined would be made if you did not have dental ›
To the extent that you or any of your dependents
by Cigna. insurance coverage.
are in any way paid or entitled to payment for
› ›
Diagnostic casts, diagnostic models or For professional services or supplies received or those expenses by or through a public program,
study models. purchased directly or on your behalf by anyone, other than Medicaid.
› including a dentist from any of the following. ›
Any charge for any treatment performed outside Charges for or in connection with experimental
of the United States other than for emergency – Yourself or your employer. procedures or treatment methods. In determining
treatment (any benefits for emergency treatment whether services are experimental, Cigna in
– A person who lives in the insured person’s
which is performed outside of the United States consultation with a dental consultant, will
home, or that person’s employer.
will be limited to a maximum of $100 per consider if such services: (a) are approved by the
consecutive 12-month period). – A person who is related to the insured person American Dental Association or the appropriate
› by blood, marriage or adoption, or that dental specialty society; (b) are in general
Oral hygiene and diet instruction; broken
person’s employer. use in the medical/dental field in the state of
appointments; completion of claim forms;
› Washington (WA residents only); (c) are under
personal supplies (water pick, toothbrush, floss For or in connection with an Injury arising out of,
continued scientific testing and research; (d) have
holder); duplication of x-rays and exams required or in the course of, any employment for wage
shown a demonstrable benefit for a particular
by a third party. or profit.
dental condition or disease; and (e) are proven to
› ›
Any charges, including ancillary charges, made For or in connection with a sickness which is be safe and effective.
by a hospital, ambulatory surgical center or covered under any workers’ compensation or ›
To the extent that benefits are paid or payable for
similar facility. similar law.
those expenses under the mandatory part of any
› ›
Services that are deemed to be medical services. For charges made by a hospital owned or auto insurance policy written to comply with a
› operated by or which provides care or performs “no-fault” insurance law or an uninsured motorist
Services for which benefits are not payable
services for the United States Government, if such insurance law. Cigna will take into account any
according to the “General Limitations” section.
charges are directly related to a military-service- adjustment option chosen under such part by you
connected condition. or any one of your dependents.
6

Individual and Family Plans All States – except MD & NY.
Insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company For MD & NY see state specific versions.
Cigna Dental Plans
PLAN IMPORTANT DISCLOSURES
Cigna Dental insurance coverage shall be only for the classes of service referred to in The Schedule of a purchased plan.
Dental plans are insured by Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company with network management services provided by Cigna Dental Health, Inc. Rates may vary based on age,
family size, geographic location (residential zip code) and plan design.
Rates are subject to change upon 30 days’ prior notice in AK, AL, AR, AZ, CO, CT, DC, DE, HI, IA, ID, IL, IN, KS, KY, MA, ME, MI, MN, MO, MT, ND, NE, NH, NJ, NM, OH, OK, OR, PA,
RI, SD, TN, UT, VT, WI and WY, 31 days’ prior notice in SC, 45 days’ prior notice in FL, 75 days’ prior notice in MS, and 60 days’ prior notice in CA, GA, NV, TX, VA and WV. In LA rates
are guaranteed for the initial 12-months of coverage, except if due to addition of a newly covered person, a change in age or geographic location, or a change in policy coverage.
Thereafter, rates are subject to change upon 45 days’ prior notice. In NC, dental rates are guaranteed for a 12-month period. Dental plans apply waiting periods to covered
basic (6-months), and major (12-months) dental care services. In ME, waiting periods are waived for Class II and Class III if under the age of 19. Waiting periods may vary by
state. Refer to the policy or outline of coverage for details. Dental plans do not apply waiting periods to covered preventive/diagnostic services and temporomandibular
joint services in AR, NM, NV, MN and VT. Some covered services are determined by age: topical application of fluoride or sealant, space maintainers, and materials for crowns
and bridges. If the plan covers replacement of teeth, there is no payment for replacement of teeth that are missing prior to coverage. In, FL, LA, OH, VA, and VT,
payment limitation no longer applies after 12 months of continuous coverage. In NM, payment limitation no longer applies after 6 months of continuous coverage.
Notice to Buyer: This policy provides dental coverage only. Review your policy carefully.
Dental preferred provider insurance policies (AL, CO, CT, DE, HI, IA, IL, MI, ND, PA, WV and WY: HC-NOT11 et al., AK: HC-NOT53, et al., AR: HC-NOT36 et al.,
AZ: INDDENTPOLAZ032017, CA: INDDENTPOLCA0713 et al., DC: HC-NOT42, et al., FL: HC-NOT15 et al., GA: INDDENPOLGA0317, ID: HC-NOT51 et al., IN: HC-NOT23,
et al., KS: HC-NOT49 et al., KY: HC-NOT44, et al., LA: INDDENTPOLLA0713, HC-NOT32 et al., MA: HC-NOT11 et al., ME: HC-NOT58, et al., MI: INDSADPOLMI.1000,
MO: INDDENTPOLMO0713, MN: INDDENTPOLMN0713, MS: HC-NOT48 et al., MT: INDDENTPOLMT0713, NC: HC-NOT18, et al., NE HC-NOT47 et al., NH: INDDENTPOLNH.1000,
NJ: HC-NOT46, et al., NM: INDDENPOLNM0317, NV: HC-NOT39 et al., OH: INDDENTPOLOH0317, OK: HC-NOT26 et al., OR: INDDENTPOLOR0713, RI HC-NOT35
et al., SC: HC-NOT19 et al., SD HC-NOT59 et al., TN: HC-NOT20 et al., TX: HC-NOT21 et al., UT: HC-NOT50 et al., VA: INDDENTPOLVA0317, VT HC-NOT56 et al.,
WA: INDDENTPOLWA0317, WI HC-NOT54 et al.) have exclusions, limitations, reduction of benefits and terms under which a policy may be continued in force or discontinued.
The policy may be cancelled by Cigna due to failure to pay premium, fraud (in VA, any act, practice or omission that constitutes fraud), ineligibility, when the insured no longer
lives in the service area, or if we cease to offer policies of this type or any individual dental plans in this state, in accordance with applicable law. You may cancel the policy
on the first of the month following our receipt of your written notice. In VA, you may cancel the policy on the date or our receipt of your written cancelation notice, unless
otherwise stated. We reserve the right to modify this policy, including policy provisions, benefits and coverages, consistent with state or federal law. This individual plan is
renewable monthly or quarterly.
For costs, and additional details about coverage, contact Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company at 900 Cottage Grove Rd, Hartford, CT 06152 or call 866.GET.Cigna
(866.438.2446).
Please contact your insurance carrier, agent/producer, or the Health Insurance Marketplace if you wish to purchase PPACA-compliant pediatric dental coverage.
All Cigna products and services are provided exclusively by or through operating subsidiaries of Cigna Corporation, including Cigna Health and Life Insurance Company, and Cigna Dental Health,
Inc. In Texas, the Dental plan is known as Cigna Dental Choice, and this plan uses the national Cigna Advantage DPPO network. The Cigna name, logo, and other Cigna marks are owned by Cigna
Intellectual Property, Inc.
888306 p 09/22 © 2022 Cigna. Some content provided under license.

